EXCEPTION HANDLING-2:

#Throw and Throws:

# Throw:

- The throw keyword is used to trasfer the exception to someone else.

- Example: 
throw new ArithmeticException();

#Throws:

- Throws keyword is used to declare the exception with method.

-Example:

void x1() throws IOException{
	x2();
}

#HOW TO CREATE A CUSTOM EXCEPTION IN JAVA:

We can create our own exception that is known as custom exception or user defined exception.

By the help of custom exception, you can have your own exception and message.


Scenario - 1:
Sometimes it is required to develop meaningful exceptions based on application requirements.
for example suppose you have one savings account in SBI bank and you have 50000 in you account.
Suppose you attempted to withdraw 60000 from you account. In java you can handle, you need to display some error message
related to insufficient fund.

Steps to create custom exception:

1. Create a new class.

2. The user defined exception class must extend from java.lang.Exception or java.lang.RunTimeException class.

3. While  creating custom exception, prefer to create an unchecked exception, runtime exception than a checked exception.

4. Every user defined exception class in which parametrized constrctor must called parametrized constructor of either 
java.lang.Exception or java.lang.RunTimeException class by using super (String parameter always).



#JAVA EXCEPTION PROPAGATION:

An Exception is first thrown from the top of the stack and if not caught , it drops down the call stack to the previous 
method. If not caught there, the exception again drops down to the previous method, and so on until they are caught or until 
they reach the very bottom of the call stack.


==> By default, unchecked exceptions are forwarded in calling chain(propagated).

==> By default, checked exceptions are not forwarded in calling chain(propagated).


#EXCEPTION HANDLING WITH METHOD OVERRIDING:

There are many rules if we talk about method overriding with exception handling.

1] If superclass method does not declare an exception:

if superclass method does not declare an exception, subclass overridden method cannot declare the checked exception
but it can declare unchecked exception.

2] If superclass method declares on exception:

Subclass overridden method can declare same, subclass exception or no exception but cannot declare parent exception.


