Java History and Features of Java:

Q.1 What is Java?

Ans: 
- Java is Object oriented programming language which was developed by sun microsystem in 1995.
- It was invented by James Gosling that is known as "Father of Java technology".

Q.2 What are the different features of Java? Enlist all of them and explain any 5?

Ans:
- There are total 13 features of Java.
1. Simple                 2. Platform Independent
3. Architectural Neutral  4. Portable
5. Secure                 6. Object-Oriented
7. Multithreaded          8. Robust
9. Interpreted            10. High Performance
11. Distributed           12. Dynamic
13. Network Savvy

- Portable: 
It is portable because converting source code into byte code that byte code can run on any platform
that's why it is  portable.

- Secure:
With the help of java we can develop virus  free system. It is very secure programming language which
is mostly used in banking industry. Some list of security features is encryption, decryption,
cryptography, SSL, etc.

- Multithreaded:
It is the best feature in java programming languages. Because it has performed the multiple tasks
simultaneously. It shares the common memory area. 

- Interpreted:
Java Interpreter is the process of converting byte code into native code called as interpreted.

- Distributed:
Java also supports the RMI (Remote method Invocation). This feature enables program to invoke the method
across the network.


Q.3 Why Java is platform independent?

Ans:
It follows WORA principle, WRITE ONCE RUN ANYWHERE. We can run same Java program on windows, Linux, and
Mac opreration system also.

Q.4 Why Java is Robust?

Ans:
There is no need of pointer concept to access string, array, file, etc. Garbage collection is done 
automatically so no need to do it manually like other programming languages. It avoids th memory
leakage problems.

Q.5 JIT compiler?

Ans:
JIT stands for Just-In-Time compiler, Because it has more information available  i.e. which code is 
executed frequently, which classes has been loaded, optimize the code for better speed.

Q.6 Why Java is not 100% OOPs?

Ans:
A fully object-oriented language needs to have all the 4 oops concepts. In addition to that, all 
predefined and, user-defined types must be objects and, all the operations should be performed only 
by calling the methods of a class.
Though java follows all the four object-oriented concepts,
- Java has predefined primitive data types (which are not objects).
- You can access the members of a static class without creating an object of it.
Therefore, Java is not considered as fully object-oriented Technology.

Q.7 Which version of Java you used? and how to find out the verion of Java?

Ans:
I have used Java version "1.8.0_241" i.e. "1.8".
To find out the version, open the command prompt and type command "java -version" it will show you
java version installed in your system.


