Methods


It is block of statements are used to perform the task called as methods.

We write methods to avoid rewriting same code again and again.

Writing all codes into one method that is not good programmer practice.

Syntax:
[Specifiers] return_typeMethod_Name(arg1, arg2){
	statement1
	statement2
	………………..
	………………..
	statement n
}

(Note- method Arguments is an optional thing).

Method Declaration:

public int add(int a, int b){
	//method body
	
}

where, public is access specifier.
int is return type.
add is method name.
(int a, int b) are the parameter list.

for more understanding please check image.(Img: method declaration.jpg)

There are two types of methods:
1. Predefined Method
2. User-defined Method


RULES FOR METHODS:

Method name in camel case only.

E.g. if your method name is addstudent() then as per java coding standards, 
it should be like addStudent(). It means always starts with lower case letter.

Method name should be some meaningful name, so developer can easily identify it what are 
the operation are performed in that methods.

Method is always enclosed within curly brackets { }.


1. Predefined Method:

In Java, predefined methods are the method that is already defined in the 
Java class libraries is known as predefined methods.

It is also known as the standard library method or built-in method. 

We can directly use these methods just by calling them in the program at any point. 

Some pre-defined methods are length(), equals(), compareTo(), sqrt(), etc.
 
When we call any of the predefined methods in our program, a series of codes 
related to the corresponding method runs in the background that is already stored in the library.


2. User-Defined Method:

The method written by the user or programmer is known as a user-defined method.

These methods are modified according to the requirement.

There are two types of methods as:
1. Static Method
2. Non-Static method


1. Static Method:

When you define a method in class with using static keyword called as static method.

We can call this method by three ways.
1. By using class name.
e.g. Example.test();

2. By creating object of class.
e.g. Example example = new Example();
example.test();

3. By method name itself.
e.g. test();



2. Non-Static Method:

When you define method in class without using static keyword called as non-static method.

It is also known as instance method.

We can call this method by creating object of class only.
Example example = new Example();
example.test();


